[KB-105] Thesis P10 introduction (#83)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/introduction.tex

\section{Introduction}\label{sec:introduction}
The NASA Viking missions in the 1970s were the first to successfully land a rover on Mars, aiming to determine if life existed on the planet.

> Despite one experiment suggesting the presence of life, the results were ambiguous and inconclusive, and NASA was unable to repeat the experiment due to budget constraints\cite{marsnasagov_vikings}.

Author: ```
One experiment suggested the presence of life, but the results were ambiguous and inconclusive, and NASA was unable to repeat the experiment due to budget constraints\cite{marsnasagov_vikings}.
```

The \gls{mer} mission, which included the Spirit and Opportunity rovers, discovered clear evidence that water once flowed on Mars.
As water alone is not enough to support life, NASA then shifted their focus to the search for organic material as well\cite{marsnasagov_observer, marsnasagov_spirit_opportunity}.

The Curiosity rover landed on Mars in August 2012 inside Gale Crater as part of the \gls{msl} mission with this very purpose.
Its sophisticated equipment quickly discovered that the conditions to support life as we know it had existed on Mars through chemical and mineral evidence.\cite{marsnasagov_chemcam}

One of the instruments aboard the rover is the \gls{chemcam} instrument, which is a remote-sensing laser instrument used to gather \gls{libs} data from geological samples on Mars.
\gls{libs} is a non-invasive technique that enables rapid analysis without the need for sample preparation by using a laser to ablate and remove surface contaminants to expose the underlying material and generate a plasma plume from the now-exposed sample material.
This plasma plume emits light that is captured through three distinct spectrometers to collect a series of spectral readings.

> These spectra consist of various emission lines, each associated with a specific element, and their intensity reflects the concentration of that element in the sample.

Reviewer: Not all emission lines can be associated with a specific element. 
Perhaps say something like this instead:
```suggestion
These spectra consist of various emission lines, that can be associated with a specific element, and their intensity reflects the concentration of that element in the sample.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These spectra consist of emission lines that can be associated with the concentration of a specific element, and their intensity reflects the concentration of that element in the sample.
```

Consequently, a spectra serves as a complex, multi-dimensional fingerprint of the elemental composition of the examined geological formations.\cite{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}

Analyzing \gls{libs} data is computationally challenging due to high multicollinearity within spectral data, which diminishes the effectiveness of traditional linear analysis.
The multicollinearity, which stems from correlations among spectral channels and elemental emission characteristics, complicates data interpretation.

> Additionally, there are multiple interacting physical processes

Reviewer: Unfinished sentence or missing a full stop?

Reviewer 2: Fixed earlier if you refer to `Additionally, there are multiple interacting physical processes`

> Additionally, there are multiple interacting physical processes
> Additionally, \textit{matrix effects} in \gls{libs} spectra arise when various physical interactions cause emission line intensities to change without a corresponding shift in the element's actual concentration

Reviewer 2: 2x Additionally. Did you intend to finish the one on line 20 or delete it?

```suggestion
Additionally, \textit{matrix effects} in \gls{libs} spectra arise when various physical interactions cause emission line intensities to change without a corresponding shift in the element's actual concentration
```

> This phenomenon introduces variability that complicates the straightforward interpretation of spectral data, challenging the accuracy of computational models tasked with determining elemental composition.\cite{andersonImprovedAccuracyQuantitative2017}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This phenomenon introduces variability that complicates the straightforward interpretation of spectral data, challenging the accuracy of computational models tasked with predicting elemental composition.\cite{andersonImprovedAccuracyQuantitative2017}
```

For analyzing Martian geological samples, the \gls{chemcam} team currently uses the \gls{moc} model\cite{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.
This model integrates \gls{pls} and \gls{ica} to predict the composition of major oxides.
Though the MOC model has proven useful, it suffers from limitations in predictive accuracy and robustness.
In \citet{p9_paper}, we created a replica of the MOC model and identified which components were responsible for these limitations.

> Through a series comparative experiments, we showed that the model selection was the primary cause of these limitations, and we showed how both \gls{ann} and \gls{gbr} methods could be used to improve the model's predictive accuracy and robustness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Through a series of comparative experiments, we showed that the model selection was the primary cause of these limitations, and we showed how both \gls{ann} and \gls{gbr} methods could be used to improve the model's predictive accuracy and robustness.
```

This is further underscored by work from the SuperCam team.
In 2021, the Perseverance rover landed on Mars, equipped with the SuperCam instrument, which is the successor to the \gls{chemcam} instrument.
As part of the ongoing work to support the SuperCam instrument, \citet{andersonPostlandingMajorElement2022} experimented with various machine learning models to predict the composition of major oxides in geological samples using the SuperCam \gls{libs} calibration dataset.
While the team decided to retain \gls{pls} for analyzing certain oxides, \gls{ica} was entirely discontinued.

> Instead, models based on \gls{gbr}, \gls{rf}, and \gls{lasso} were selected for other oxides.

Reviewer 2: They included a few other methods as well, e.g. Elastic Net. Do we want to be exhaustive here? Otherwise, we can just say `among others`.
